---
number: "2013-04-18"
title: "Compass and Floats"
author: Omar de Armas
published: 'Thursday, 18 Apr 2013'
layout: blog
---

<a href="../posts/{{ number }}.html" class='postTitleLink'><p class='postTitle'>{{ title }}</p></a>
<p class='postPublished'>{{ published }}</p>
<hr>

>"Back in my day we had to code up hill, against the wind, in the snow, BOTH WAYS!"

I've been reminded that things weren't so easy before my time with this stuff. I guess waiting to till my thirties to decide my job was crap wasn't all bad after all.  
<br>
Compass:  
Man compass is awesome. In the short time I've been at this I had already begun to run into crazy issues with margins and stuff that I had no idea where they were coming from. Friends told me that I need some code to basically reset reset everything to zero then add back what I want after. Enter Compass. `@import "compass/reset";` One line in my CSS later and everything is squared away. No crazy leading space, no more adding `-webkit-padding-start:0px;` or `-webkit-margin-before: 15px;`. Awesome. And it handles all those stupid vendor prefixes that I never remember. Double Awesome.  
<br>
Floats:  
My first attempt at the food truck site was stupid. Used `position` to try and set everything up the way I thought it should layout. It took a lot of trial and error to find the right numbers for `top` `right` `bottom` and `left`. really fiddly and dumb. Friend told me to dump it and use floats. In no time at all had the exact same layouts with out an of the brokenness I was seeing with `position:abolute;`. I already knew about `float`, and I'm not totally sure what I was thinking the benefit to not using it would be. I guess now know the benefits to use it first hand.  
This is my current version of clearfix:
    .group:after{
      content: "";
      display: table;
      clear: both;
    }  
Anyone have a better way?  Compass has a clearfix mixin but I wasn't seeing the same results when I used that, so I went back to this one.  
Advice appreciated.